
Test category: Structural
Purpose of Test	Tools and Procedures
1-Integration Error Test	In the first test suggested by Lohmann and Meyers, (2015) and Sterman, (2000) the results of our models should not be sensitive to the choice of time step or integration method; the wrong time step or integration method can introduce spurious dynamics into our model. The test for such “DT error” cutting the time step from 0.125 in half to 0.0625 and running the model again, shows no matter change, as in Fig. 1. We also duplicate the time step in double to 0.25 and running the model again, no matter change either. If the results change in ways that matter, the time step was too large, so we should continue until the results are no longer sensitive to the choice of time step. Likewise, we run the model with alternate integration methods from Euler to RK4auto as in Fig. 3, shows no matter change either.
2-Extreme Condition Test	Extreme condition tests ask whether models behave appropriately when the inputs take on extreme values such as zero or max. value. We carried out in two main ways: by direct inspection of the model equations and by simulation. We examine each decision rule (rate equation) in the model and ask whether the output of the rule is feasible and reasonable even when each input to the equation takes on its maximum and minimum values. Results are in Figures 4 and 5. 
3-Boundary Adequacy	We used model boundary charts, causal diagrams, stock and flow maps as Figures 6, 7 and 8, and direct inspection of model equations as in Table 2 Data source were interviews, observation, archival materials, review of literature, direct inspection /participation in system process, etc. We modify model to include plausible additional structure in each supply network position repeating sensitive analysis.
4-Structure Examination/Assessment	We conduct partial model tests of the intended rationality of decision rules. We develop disaggregate sub-models (Figs. 6, 7 and 8) and compare to aggregate formulations. Disaggregate suspect structures, repeating sensitivity analysis. We tested physical law that stocks can’t become negative, outcomes could approach zero. All variables have measure units.
5-Dimensional Adequacy and Consistency	We use real world units of measure got from case studies, besides we check each sub-model variables units, to understand the structure or decision process we are trying to model (Figs. 9, 10 and 11).
6-Parameter assessment	We make examination to evaluate model’s parameters against evidence or knowledge about the real system. The test utilizes both empirical, from cases BOM and theoretical information according to Haas et al., (2015). Hence, the test is conceptual and numerical. The conceptual parameter examination test is about construct validity. Numerical from cases bill of materials based on knowledge of the real system constrains is about real-world validity (detailed in set of Appendix 1).
7-Mass-balance Check	We   procedure accumulating all the inflows and outflows over time for each resource being modeled in each sub-model and then use the following balance or checksum equation: (Sum of all inflows-Sum of all outflows +initial values of stocks-current values of stocks) *dt= 0 (Dangerfield, 2014; Lohmann and Meyers, 2015). No sub-model has gain mass (Figs 12,13 and 14).

Test category: Behavioral
8- Reproduction and symptom tests. Theil Inequality Statistic Test breakdown the mean square error in three components, bias, unequal variation and unequal covariation	The mean-square error (MSE) for Circularity is 0.02 and the root mean-square error (RMSE) is 0.14. The individual components of the inequality statistics are UM = 0.05 bias, US= 0.03 unequal variation, UC= 0.92 unequal covariation ( Fig. 15). The decomposition shows that the major part of the error is due to the unequal covariation component, while the other two sources of error are small. This signifies that the point-by-point values of the simulated and the historical data do not perfect match, even though the model captures the dominant trend and the average values in the historical data. Such a situation indicates that the major part of the error is probably unsystematic and therefore that the model should not be rejected for failing to match the noise component of the data. The residuals of the historic and simulated time series show no significant trend. This strengthens the assessment that the model comprises of a structure that captures the fundamental dynamics of the issue under study. According to Sterman, (2000) many systems, including the supply chains and commodity markets, selectively amplify certain frequencies in the random shocks that constantly perturb them. Since no model can capture all the random variations in the environment.
9-Family Member and Multiple Modes Test	The family member test asks whether the model can generate the behavior of other instances in the same class (CESN) as the system the model was built to mimic. Our model of CESN implementation and growth can explain why some other circular networks, with different policies and parameters, experience growth, this test permits a repeat of the other tests of the model in the context of different special cases that fall within the general theory covered by the model. The general theory is embodied in the structure of the model. The mode is a pattern of observed behavior. The multiple mode test considers whether a model is able to generate more than one mode of observed behavior. We replicate our model to Case 1 parameters and policies as shown in Fig. 16.

Test category: Contextual
10-Model Framing and Issue Identification	Model has orientative purpose and clear goal defined in problem articulation. Besides recurrently tested during model building.
11-Issue identification and Adequacy of Methodology Test	System Dynamics methodology is best-suited for dealing with the issue under study. Once the issue is characterized by dynamic complexity, feedback loop mechanisms, nonlinear interdependency of structural elements, and delays between causes and effects.  Besides CESN management to foster CE system must be studied in a dynamic way understanding the process over time.
12-System Improvement	Finished model compared to real world reference mode was tested in base case scenario Fig 16.
13-System configuration	CESN management developed framework focused on recycling process in that a hybrid loop configuration adding several industries chains in a network was the best choice Fig. 17.
